Hi here's one last thing I want to show you in the random library and it's the samples method.
So let's just recall what we did with the choices.
Right.
So if we have let's say random choices we can choose from a list let's say of three characters containing
a b and c.
And since it does the random pics with replacement It means that we can actually pick more items that
are in the list.
So in this case we just get these things repeated because every time basically we make a new choice
of ABC.
We can do this of course as many times as we want.
Sometimes however what we want to do is we want to pick a random selection from a population.
So we want to do a random sample which means that essentially we wanted two choices but without replacement
here's what I mean.
Let's take a look at a simple list.
Let's look at all equal to a list of range of 10 for example and I'll make it into a list so we could
print it.
So let's say this is my population and what I want to do is I'm going to pick a random sample out of
that population let's say upsized 5.
Now if I was to use the choices so far 5 did random choices and we'll take l and with say cake will
to five.
Then we run the risk of having repetitions.
And indeed we had it.
In this case here.
But that's not what we want.
If we've picked six once already we want to not have six come up again.
We don't want replacement and this is with sample comes in.
So instead of doing random choices we would do random sample.
We would tell that which list to sample from and then we also have to specify how many samples we want.
So like KCl 5 we can run this any time any number of times we want.
We won't get elements repeated.
What this means of course is that you cannot specify K greater than the sample length.
Here are sample or then the population length.
So here our population has one has ten elements.
So we can go up to 10 but we certainly can go beyond 10.
We'll get an exception right smaller sampler sample larger than the population or is negative.
We can have a negative sample size either.
So when might this come in useful.
Well if you for example selecting random counts from a deck of Count You obviously don't want to have
count repeated because once you have drawn a count from the deck you can't possibly pick it again if
it's a standard deck of cards.
So let's take a look at just a simple example of that.
Let's go ahead and build a deck and first thing I'm going to want to build is my soup's.
So for the suits I'm going use a top.
We're going to have clubs.
We're going to have diamonds.
We're going to have hearts and we're going to have spades.
OK.
And then for my ranks I'm going to use the numbers so I'm going to make a way we can make a topple out
of that as well.
We're going to take the range from two up to and including 10 so range 2 through 11 plus.
And then I want to append to that.
What I want to append the jack.
So actually I'm going to do it this way.
I want to append jack queen king ace.
So I'll make a table out of that and we'll form our ranks.
Now look at our suits.
We have that.
And if you look at the ranks we have that what I want to do though is I want to create a deck.
The deck should look something like the two of clubs.
The three of clubs all the way up to the ace of clubs.
Then we have the two of diamonds all the way up to the ace of diamonds.
Then the two of hearts up to the Ace of Hearts and then the two of spades all the way up to the ace
of spades.
Right.
So that's what we want to do 52 counts.
So really this is a nested loop.
We have to loop through the suits to get each suit and then for each suit we have to tack on the rank
in front of it.
And then we had gone to the next suit and do the same thing.
So we could certainly use a double loop.
We could do something like this.
That equals that.
And then with say fourth suit in our pocket and type four suit in suits and then four rank in ranks
and we would say decked out of hand whether we want to append we want to take the rank so it would take
a string of the rank because right now my ranks could be numbers or strings.
So I'm going to convert that to a strength.
I'm going to concatenate onto that.
The suit itself can't.
And so now if we print the deck we have a deck as expected two of clubs three of clubs all the way up
to the ace of clubs.
Then the two of diamonds all the way up through the ace of spades.
Now of course again this isn't the cleanest way of doing it.
Much simpler is to use a list comprehension.
So we're going to basically take that code and rewrite it as a comprehension.
So this is the element we want to generate for each element of the resulting list.
And we're going to do this for what 12 full suits in suits and fold deck in a full deck for rank and
ranks.
OK.
The same thing.
It's just right.
Written using a list comprehension.
And there we go we have all deck.
Right.
So pretty straightforward.
Now let's go ahead and choose a random sample.
Now if we were to use choices we would get something like random choices from the deck and let's say
we want to choose 10.
And I don't know if we're going to get any repetitions or we're going to see necessarily but eventually
we will.
Right.
If we make this large enough let's say we want to choose you know 40 counts then we're probably going
to get some repetition.
How can we figure that out.
Well we can look at random dot and Ringle what that class name was counted.
Actually it's not in random.
Sorry.
Let's go ahead and import it.
So from collections import count.
OK.
And then what we're going to do here we're going to look at counter all this.
And if you see well yeah we can see the 10 of diamonds.
No.
10 of the hands of Jared wants that we go for pass was generated twice.
Nine of diamonds was generated twice.
QUEEN OF DIAMONDS three times Jack of Spades three times.
That's because we have replacement when we use choices.
So instead with we have to do is we have to use random dots sample and again or just pass the deck in.
And then we'll make that say we're pull 10 cards out and we won't get repetition even if we look at
let's say pulling 40 counts out of this.
We're not going to get repetition.
And let's check that.
Using counters.
And as you can see everything in there is a 1.
In fact we can go all the way up to 52 and we won't get a repetition because this is a sample.
This is not just replacing choice selection.
All right.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in the next video.